---
layout: post
title:  "Nut Meat Branding"
date:   2021-01-24 15:45:42 -0600
featured-image: CbC-logo-2-colors.jpg
featured-image-alt: Nut Meat Branding
categories: [case-studies]
tags: 
---

A friend of mine recently created a new walnut-based ground meat alternative that's gluten-free, soy-free, and entirely vegan. She had started selling the product in local stores, but was planning to pitch it to Whole Foods as well. Before doing that, she needed a more complete representation of her brand—a polished logo, style guide, and packaging. 

---

Luckily she had existing brand materials that served as a perfect jumping-off point for the project. Though the original name of the product was "Not Meat, Much Better," she had decided to go with the more concise and descriptive "Nut Meat." We chose to keep the cast iron pan shape that contains the product name because it clearly communicates what the product is and how it's meant to be cooked. It also gives the impression that the product is more natural, homemade, and as familiar to the customer as conventional meat.

With that in mind, I chose a hefty slab serif for the brand name to retain an authentic and assertive character. This typeface, Memphis, would also work for headings throughout brand materials. For sub-headings and body copy, I selected the Gibson font family. 

Finally, to ensure the logo reads well no matter where it's used, I provided versions optimized for small sizes and when reversed.

---

The color palette for this brand is earthy and contemporary. We thoughtfully chose colors that would complement each other and could eventually be used to express different variations or flavors of the product. To accompany these colors, I created a trio of organic, hand-drawn patterns that convey certain elements of the product's ingredients. 

---

Finally, these elements all come together in the product's packaging. 

---

This was such a fun project to work on; I had a blast every step of the way, and I'm so glad I could help create a holistic brand ecosystem that we can (hopefully!) see on shelves in the near future. If you've got a product or business you're passionate about and need a hand bringing to life, I'd love to take a whack at it! 